---
layout: ../../layouts/PostLayout.astro
title: "Keyboard Kata Part 1: Utilizing the Keyboard and Eliminating Movement."
pubDate: 2023-10-29
description: "A small post on some of my most used keyboard shortcuts and my thoughts on eliminating movement."
author: "dan"
tags: ["project", "blog"]
publish: true
---

# It's the small things in life that make life so luxurious.

During the past year, I found myself unsatisfied with my current workflow of programming in general. I found that my current method of getting an idea to code was slower than I wanted. It was quite easy to put a finger on it in this case: I had a flimsy keyboard that was half a decade old and full of dust, with several keys needing an extra hard press to actuate, and a mouse that was constantly double-clicking. So the fix was pretty easy and it required only throwing money at it. Fantastic. End of the article.

Okay, that's not entirely true. I did end up spending money, but the initial thought of purchasing new equipment made me seriously rethink the idea of tools and what it means to fully utilize these objects that are supposed to make our lives easier. I mean, what does an upgrade in terms of a keyboard and mouse actually entail, and to fully utilize these upgrades, what does that entail as well?

The actual purchase and journey to my current setup will most likely be in another post, but what I actually want to write about is the philosophy of using the tools you have now to make movement more efficient. From your hands to the code you write.

So what is it?

***Keyboard Shortcuts***

## Okay, Tell Me More

Great, if you are still reading this, then you are interested in the finer and more luxurious things in your life.

Firstly, what are keyboard shortcuts?

Essentially, they're just a combination of one or more keys to achieve an action without using the mouse.

A very simple example that most people have likely learned early on in school is copy-paste. The manual method of engaging copy-paste is:
1. Use your mouse and drag to highlight the word or group of words you'd like to copy.
2. Right-click to open the context menu.
3. Click the copy command.
4. Use your mouse to find the place you'd like to paste your copied buffer.
5. Right-click to open the context menu.
6. Click the paste command.

A very powerful feature, but I think you can see how cumbersome that procedure can get when you are knee-deep in a paper that you have to finish by the next morning.

The keyboard shortcut way?
Normally, I'd just use keyboard shortcuts to navigate my cursor around, but in this example, let's keep it simple and use the mouse to move about.
The only difference is that instead of opening the context menu with the mouse:
- we'll just press `command + c` (`control + c` for Windows and Linux) to copy.
- to paste, we press `command + v`.

This was a pretty trivial example, so let's get into more fruitful luxuries, shall we?

A quick note I should add is that most of these shortcuts from here on out will be based on macOS. It's the operating system I've been using for the past year, so it's what I'm used to. The general rule of thumb is that `command` can be replaced with `control` for Windows and Linux-based systems.

### Tabs, Tabs, Tabs

In 2023, having multiple tabs open in a web browser is totally a thing. The idea of a tab within an application is not a new concept and is quite readily accepted even among those not in tech.

Typically, we move from tab to tab via clicking the individual tabs with the mouse. But we can do better than that.

We can actually move from one tab to another just by using these sets of keypresses:
1. `command + shift + [` or `command + shift + ]` to move backward or forward from the current tab.
2. `control + page up` or `control + page down` to move backward or forward from the current tab.

***Notes:*** 

These two sets work for Firefox, but I haven't tested them on Chrome or any other web browsers. 

In VS Code, only `1` works to move between tabs. Also, cool fact, you can use these movement shortcuts to move between open shells in your integrated terminal. 

But what about a more precise method of accessing tabs? Like that one tab that I have dedicated to my sick beats while I code.

Absolutely: `command + 1` to access the leftmost tab, `command + 2` to access the tab next to tab 1, and so on. I imagine you get the point.

It's quite a useful set of commands when you have tabs that one always needs access to, such as your email, documentation, a localhost for development, and of course, the Spotify list.

For those that want a formula:
`command + [position]` where position is the desired tab's position, starting from 1 but only to 8.

Only to 8? That is correct, only the first 8 tabs are accessible. However, 9 is a very handy command because `command + 9` lets you access the absolute last tab on the list. In other words, the tab on the very farthest right. Very useful as well. As the discrete mathematics lecturer I had in first year would say: Write that down.

This post has gotten a bit longer than I expected, so I'll stop for now.

I'll add one more because this one is especially luxurious. I might be labeled as lazy, but I am so over using my mouse to access the address bar. So instead of taking my hands off my keyboard to go to my mouse, I just use this:

`F6`

That's it. I know it's technically not a keyboard combination, but the number of people who readily use the function being so low, it may as well be a keyboard combination.

You can also use `command + L`, but this command has the weakness of not being able to "unselect" the address bar in the case you change your mind.

In the case of `F6`:
- Press `F6` to select the address bar.
- Changed your mind? Press `F6` again to deselect the address bar and put the focus back onto the web page/content.

And that's it.

I'm going to space my daily keyboard katas out a bit. Now that I'm writing the content, it's actually quite a mouthful. So I'll write the combos that I use in a more digestible format.

Cool. Until next time, later.

Just foot note: I noticed I used the word 'luxury' and I'm totally keeping it in.