---
layout: ../../layouts/PostLayout.astro
title: "Deploying My Blog: A Journey in Minimalism and Markdown"
pubDate: 2023-10-08
description: 'Like Dr. Frankenstein said: "It''s alive!" Do you ever think a Dev Op engineer ever says "It''s deployed!"? Anyways, this is the first post!'
author: "dan"
tags: ["project", "blog"]
publish: true
---

Hooray, we did it!
\
\
This is my first blog post, and while it may not boast a plethora of features just yet, it's fully functional. I've had a growing fascination with lightweight blogs, and I decided it was the perfect opportunity to embark on a project using a framework and to become more acquainted with Markdown. This blog is powered by Astro, primarily because of its alluring promise of rapid development and deployment. Excited, I dove right in. By coupling Astro with Tailwind CSS, the development process moved at a brisk pace, exceeding my expectations. The versatility and efficiency of Tailwind have made it a personal favorite.
\
\
Still, there's much ground to cover as I continue to shape this blog.
\
\
It's functional, but it's bare, especially in its desktop version, which is still a work in progress. Meanwhile, I've limited the maximum width to around 800px to keep things neat and tidy.
The appearance is starting to take shape, but it's not quite there yet. I've also noticed a recurring theme in my banner images—mountains seem to be a recurring motif. While the layout is mostly finalized, I'm still contemplating the design language and the look of individual pages.
\
\
Next on my agenda is how I organize my posts and collections. I've begun to question if naming my posts by date is the most effective approach. I'm intrigued by Astro's collections feature, which holds promise in terms of structuring the content. The potential to use tags and work with collections directly in the code is an exciting prospect.
\
\
Working with Astro has been an enjoyable experience, but I'm also considering a deeper exploration of server-side rendering versus client-side rendering as I move forward.
\
\
As I continue to fine-tune and expand my blog, I look forward to sharing the journey with you. Stay tuned for further developments and improvements!
