---
layout: ../../layouts/PostLayout.astro
title: "Navigating the Design Challenges of a Developer: Font Weight"
pubDate: 2023-10-13
description: "\"After numerous attempts to adjust the font size for the main content, I couldn't shake the feeling that something was amiss.\""
author: "dan"
tags: ["project", "blog"]
publish: true
---

# The Blog Post Styling still needs to be finished
\
As a developer, I've embarked on a journey to craft a visually appealing and user-friendly blog. One of the most perplexing aspects of this endeavor has been the styling, particularly the choice of font for the main body. It seemed like an insurmountable task to find the perfect font that would strike the right balance between aesthetics and readability.
\
\
After numerous attempts to adjust the font size for the main content, I couldn't shake the feeling that something was amiss. It was during my work on the 'About' page that I finally grasped the root of the issue: font weight. The default font, Cabin, worked beautifully for shorter headings, but it left the paragraphs feeling slightly too spacious. The breakthrough came when I decided to venture beyond the default weight and opt for a lighter one with tighter line spacing. It was remarkable how this seemingly minor adjustment transformed the way my content looked and felt, making it appear more polished and harmonious.
\
\
Another reason I had been procrastinating on refining the design of my blog was the struggle to establish a cohesive color scheme. With the help of tools like Tailwind CSS, the process of creating an aesthetically pleasing design became significantly more efficient. The flexibility and speed it offered made me eager to experiment with various color combinations and styles.
\
\
As I'm gradually honing the responsive design of the site (with only the index page left to tackle), I'm excited about the prospects of delivering a greatly enhanced reading experience to my audience. Stay tuned for the final touches that promise to elevate the overall aesthetic and usability of the blog.
\
\
PS: Also, Friday 13th. Spooky scary skeletons everybody.
