---
title: "More styling! This time on Markdown"
pubDate: 2023-10-22
description: "A look into the question of ''Why isn''t this working???'' in regards to my blogpost formatting and other small adventures."
author: "dan"
tags: ["project", "blog"]
publish: true
---

# Bundle up, it's getting chilly

Before we dive into the world of styling Markdown, let me ask you this: do you notice anything different about this post? If your guess is that it's now styled, you're absolutely right. That's the theme of today's discussion. So, let's start with a little background story.

## Astro, Markdown, and Tailwind

This blog you're reading is crafted using the Astro framework. It ingeniously assembles the layout, from headers to footers, on the server and then serves it to the client. Components and layouts are essentially static, allowing me to apply styles directly. In this case, I've chosen Tailwind CSS for the job. One nifty feature of Tailwind is the preflight mechanism, which essentially removes all those pesky default styles that HTML elements come with, such as default margins and font sizes. How often have you used an `<h1>` element with default margins and sizing? Hardly ever, right? Preflight makes text-related elements essentially styleless, including headings (e.g., `<h1>`, `<h2>`, `<h3>`) and even the paragraph element. It's incredibly useful, except when it comes to styling Markdown.

### What's the Challenge with Markdown and Tailwind?

As mentioned earlier, our entire blog is constructed using Astro. However, the main content, the blog posts themselves, are driven through Markdown pages. This file format allows us to apply styles using code-like elements, such as adding an `<h3>`, which appears as follows:

```markdown
### This is an h3
```

This results in this:

### This is a h3

Pretty neat, right? The hiccup arises when we want to style Markdown, as we don't have direct access to Markdown stylings like we do with HTML. Well, we technically can use HTML element structures and inline styling in Markdown, but it doesn't seem like the cleanest design pattern.

## So, What's the Solution?

Let's sum up the situation. Markdown is rendered without any styling, and this removal of styling affects everything within Markdown, including headings, paragraphs, and even blockquotes. However, other Markdown features, like code snippets, remain untouched. Based on these clues, it's likely that Tailwind preflight is overriding the default styling provided by Astro for Markdown.

Even if Tailwind isn't causing the issue, I found that I didn't have a straightforward way to style Markdown elements directly. So, how do we tackle this challenge? I was aware of a Tailwind plugin that addressed content styling, but I wanted to explore if there was a manual solution using Astro or native Tailwind features.

Here's what I attempted:

- Importing a stylesheet inside the blog post layout: I created a CSS file that was imported exclusively within the blog post layout to ensure the styles were scoped. However, this didn't work as expected. Although the style was imported via the blog post layout, it applied globally. Nevertheless, the imported stylesheet did have an impact on Markdown!

Given this scenario, I came across a blog post that suggested using named classes to be more specific, such as `.blog-h1`, and then applying Tailwind classes to them. However, this solution didn't sit well with me. It felt counterintuitive to switch from utility-based styling to named styling for this specific Markdown styling use case.

This leads us to the Typography plugin provided by Tailwind. It addressed all my needs and also taught me a valuable lesson about what constitutes "good" styling for written content. I assumed that wider screens required larger text, but it turns out that it's surprisingly smaller than I initially thought. Nevertheless, it enhances readability. Who would have guessed?

## Lessons and Questions for the Future

Every issue or problem I encounter leads to valuable insights. It might not always be a profound lesson, but it deepens my understanding of general development or specific framework details. A few takeaways from this experience:

- Styling Markdown: I didn't ponder this topic much until I faced it. How should Markdown be styled, or how can default styling be applied to it? In this case, Tailwind provided the answer, but what if I didn't use Tailwind and relied solely on vanilla CSS?
- Tailwind's Astro implementation (or is it Astro's Tailwind implementation?): The base.css file, typically required for bundling, is conveniently included.
- Aesthetics can be challenging to acquire, but having a package or tool that takes care of the styling aspect works wonders in shaping my own sense of style.

And, on a side note, you might have noticed that there's currently no way to access previous blog posts. With just a handful of posts accessible from the front page, it's bound to get cluttered soon. That's the next feature I plan to work on.

Until next time! 🐊
