---
title: "Keyboard Utilities Part 2: Basic Movement"
pubDate: 2023-11-06
description: "Before we move on, let us visit some core movement ideas on the keyboard"
author: "dan"
tags: ["project", "blog"]
publish: true
---

# My Favourite (Simple) Keys

In our previous article, we delved into browser tab navigation, exploring the world of multi-key shortcuts. But today, we're going back to basics to discover the often underutilized cluster of keys located just above the arrow keys.

Can you spot them? We're talking about the Insert, Delete, Home, End, Page Up, and Page Down keys.

If you haven't been incorporating these keys into your daily keyboard usage, you're missing out on a significant boost in productivity. Let's dive into what makes them so valuable.

## Page Up and Page Down: The Speedy Scrollers

Page Up and Page Down keys may look unassuming, but they are incredibly useful for scrolling through content efficiently. Unlike the incremental scrolling you get with the up and down arrow keys, Page Up and Page Down take you on a quick journey through an entire screen's worth of content with each press. In essence, your scrolling speed now depends on your monitor's height.

Take a moment to practice using Page Up and Page Down instead of the arrow keys when you're scrolling. Save those arrow keys for fine-grained analysis; the Page Up and Page Down keys are your express route. Give it a try and feel the difference!

## Home and End: Navigating Extremes

Home and End keys are similar to Page Up and Page Down, but their function depends on the context and, interestingly, on your operating system.

In general, Home whisks you to the top of a page, while End takes you to the bottom. I find Home particularly handy for quickly accessing menus at the top of a page, and End is perfect for reaching the footer with essential information like Shipping Policies or FAQs.

However, Windows and Mac have slightly different ideas about how these keys should work. In Windows and applications like Visual Studio Code, Home moves the cursor to the beginning of the current line, and End places it at the line's very end. On Mac, you can mimic this behavior by using `Command + Left` (beginning of the line) and `Command + Right` (end of the line). This can be a real time-saver when making edits, eliminating the need for multiple arrow key taps or reaching for your mouse.

## Insert and Delete: Hidden Gems

The Insert key can seem like a mystery to many, but it has application-specific uses, particularly in programs like Excel. It's not widely used but can be essential in specific scenarios.

On the other hand, the Delete key is a universal gem. If you're not already making use of it, I highly recommend incorporating it into your daily keyboard arsenal. Think of it as the counterpart to the backspace key. While backspace removes characters to the left and moves the cursor accordingly, Delete is like an incinerator, erasing characters to the right without relocating the cursor. This makes it a fantastic tool for efficient text editing, especially when you want to delete characters in front of the cursor.

These keyboard shortcuts are incredible time-savers. They're easily accessible, just like those arrow keys we're so used to. Using them more can reduce the need to shift your hand position constantly, minimizing fatigue and discomfort.

Give them a try, and you'll find that the extra time you spend with your keyboard can mean less time wasted on mouse movements and repetitive keypresses.

Until next time!
